Introduction

In this assignment, you will be creating some of the key components of a system that can plan which plane an airline uses to fly passengers on each of their flights, and choose which pilots and cabin crew are rostered for each flight. This is a simplified but representative version of a real problem faced by airlines and other businesses. The University has consulted with several businesses in other sectors in the region to develop this kind of software over recent years. 

Because large aircraft weigh more and consume more fuel than smaller ones, airlines try to allocate the smallest aircraft with enough seats to accommodate the booked passengers to a flight. Pilots and cabin crew, however, are only qualified to operate certain types of aircraft. Such “type ratings” can take a considerable amount of time and money to obtain, so it is rare for staff to be qualified to operate all the types of aircraft that an airline may possess. 

The rules governing how long and how often airline staff may work are complex and strict. They are designed to ensure passenger safety, and are negotiated nationally and internationally between pilot and cabin crew unions and government safety agencies. Thus, deciding which type of plane to fly on a particular route on a particular day is a complex decision factoring in passenger demand, the availability of aircraft, and the availability of qualified pilots and cabin crew. 

This assignment simulates some of the constraints you could find yourself working under when developing software in industry. You will be supplied with certain key interfaces to which your software must conform, and your system will have to operate on data supplied in various formats, as if it were exported from separate existing, so-called legacy systems. You will also have to use specific libraries to complete the work, although these are the same ones you used in the relevant lab sessions.
